feat(edge-services): update doc following migration (#6556)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/edge-services/concepts.mdx

tags: edge-services edge services pipeline custom-domain cache
dates:
  creation: 2024-07-24
  validation: 2026-06-09
---
import image from './assets/scaleway-edge-services-pipeline.webp'

## Backend

A backend (formerly referred to as [origin](#origin)) is the primary source from which a Scaleway Edge Services pipeline retrieves and caches data. An Edge Services backend can consist of either:

- An [Object Storage bucket](/object-storage/how-to/create-a-bucket/), or

> - A [Load Balancer](/load-balancer/how-to/create-load-balancer/) and frontend port that Edge Services connects to in order to request content, and (optionally) a specified [host](#destination-host) associated with the Load Balancer, used in the HTTP request Host Header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Load Balancer](/load-balancer/how-to/create-load-balancer/) and frontend port that Edge Services connects to in order to request content, and (optionally) a specified [host](#destination-host) associated with the Load Balancer, used in the HTTP request `Host` header.
```

The endpoint can be customized with a user-defined subdomain, allowing you to replace the standardized endpoint with the subdomain of a domain you already own, e.g. `http://my-own-domain.com`. An associated [certificate](#certificate), and [CNAME record](#cname-record) will be required, in this case.

## Exclusions

In the context of an Edge Services [Web Application Firewall](#waf), exclusions let you define filters for requests that should not be evaluated by WAF, but rather pass straight to the backend. Learn more about [creating exclusions](/edge-services/how-to/configure-waf/#how-to-set-exclusions).

## Origin

Previously, the term origin was used to describe a Load Balancer or Object Storage bucket that was the target of an Edge Services pipeline. Moving forward, for enhanced clarity, we will use the term [backend](#backend) rather than origin.

## Destination host

> In the case of a Load Balancer as an Edge Services backend, the specific host for which Edge Services requests and caches data. This is an optional setting: when specified, this host (e.g. `mydomain.com`) is used in the HTTP Host Header when Edge Services requests data from the Load Balancer. If no destination host is specified, the `Host` from the incoming request will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of a Load Balancer as an Edge Services backend, the specific host for which Edge Services requests and caches data. This is an optional setting: when specified, this host (e.g. `mydomain.com`) is used in the HTTP `Host` header when Edge Services requests data from the Load Balancer. If no destination host is specified, the `Host` from the incoming request will be used.
```

An Edge Services pipeline consists of a [backend](#backend), which Edge Services can protect from threats with a [Web Application Firewall](#waf), and for which it also requests and [caches](#cache) content. Each pipeline also has an [endpoint](#endpoint) from which content is accessed and served via Edge Services. The pipeline's endpoint can be customized with a user-defined [subdomain](/domains-and-dns/concepts/#subdomain) and associated [certificate](#certificate) so that Edge Services can serve content over HTTPS.

You can create an Edge Services pipeline for each of your Object Storage buckets or Load Balancers. Note that caching and WAF can be enabled and disabled at will, so are optional parts of the pipeline, as is the customization of the endpoint.

## Protocol

> The protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) that the Edge Services pipeline should use when sending requests to a backend. HTTPS is recommended, but you should choose the protocol that corresponds with your Load Balancer setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) that the Edge Services pipeline should use when sending requests to a backend. HTTPS is recommended, but you should choose the protocol that corresponds to your Load Balancer setup.
```

## WAF

> An Edge Services **W**eb **A**pplication **F**irewall (WAF) evaluates requests to your backend to determine whether they are potentially malicious. You can set the [paranoia level](#paranoia-level) to be used when evaluating requests. Requests that are judged to be malicious are then blocked or logged, depending on the settings you choose. Find out more about [configuring a WAF](/edge-services/how-to/configure-waf/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Edge Services **W**eb **A**pplication **F**irewall (WAF) evaluates requests to your backend to determine whether they are potentially malicious. You can set the [paranoia level](#paranoia-level) to be used when evaluating requests. Requests identified as malicious are then blocked or logged depending on your settings. Find out more about [configuring a WAF](/edge-services/how-to/configure-waf/).
```
